JUDY WOODRUFF: But first: It
was a shooting that captured
the nation's attention last
summer, at the same time it
was already grappling with
tensions over police shootings.
And, today, the jury
reached a verdict in the
trial of the officer.
Hari Sreenivasan has the latest.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Philando
Castile was shot when his car
was pulled over for a traffic
stop last July.
His girlfriend was in the car,
and live-streamed the aftermath
on Facebook moments later.
Officer Jeronimo Yanez said
at the time that he believed
Castile was reaching for a gun.
Castile's family and
girlfriend disputed that.
Yanez had been charged with
second-degree manslaughter
and endangering safety.
This afternoon, a jury acquitted
him of all charges after
five days of deliberations.
Soon after, his mother
and sister came out
and spoke to reporters.
VALERIE CASTILE, Mother of
Philando Castile: My son was
murdered, and I will continue to
say murdered, because where
in this planet do you tell
the truth, and you be honest,
and you still be murdered by
the police of Minnesota, while
you have your seat belt on
and you're in the company
with a woman and a child?
My son would never jeopardize
anyone else's life.
ALLYSZA CASTILE, Sister of
Philando Castile: The system
really is wrong, and they really
failed us.
They really failed us,
once again, because my
brother was a good man.
You never even heard
him raise his voice.
You never even heard him yell.
And for that man to get on the
stand and lie, he got caught
in three, four, five different
lies.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It was
the most recent example
of an officer being
acquitted in a high-profile
shooting.
The jury had been
deadlocked in recent days.
Tim Nelson of Minnesota
Public Radio has been covering
the trial and joins me now.
Tim, first, you were
in the courtroom.
The reaction?
TIM NELSON, Minnesota
Public Radio: It was
swift and shocking.
The Castile family was
sitting in the courtroom.
The judge had asked people to
be quiet while the verdicts
were read, but as soon as the
not-guilty verdict for the
manslaughter account was
returned, Valerie Castile
-- that's Philando's
mother -- got up and
started shouting profanity
in the courtroom.
She had been -- the people in
the court had been told to wait
until all the verdicts were
read before they left, and
she pushed her way out, was
joined by many of her friends
and family, visibly upset,
very, very angry about
the verdict here today.
On the other side, the friends
and family, some of the fellow
officers of Jeronimo Yanez
were weeping as well,
clearly relieved that
this ordeal is over.
It's been going on
almost a year now.
He was charged in November.
So, a lot of angst
initially in the courtroom.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tim, the
county attorney when he was
bringing these charges said no
reasonable officer
would have used deadly
force in this situation.
Why wasn't he able
to convince a jury?
TIM NELSON: Well, I think there
were three real factors here.
One of them was, we saw for
the first time the squad car
video, the perspective of the
officer, or at least
from his dash-cam.
And what we saw was, this
happened very quickly.
And you could feel the emotion,
you could feel the tension in
this situation as it happened.
And it's confounding.
You can't see what was
actually going on in the car.
And I think that that
left some doubt there.
The other thing is, the defense
continued to return to the
THC found in Mr. Castile's
blood after he died.
They continued to suggest that
he had been smoking marijuana,
and that may have clouded
his judgment when he told the
officer that pulled him over
that he had a gun, that he
may not have done it in a way
that lessened the risk that
they both faced in this case.
And I think the third thing
in this case was Officer Yanez
actually taking the stand last
Friday.
He was near tears as he talked
about the fear he felt, the
tension he felt, the thoughts
of his family running through
his mind as he encountered
Philando Castile for those
first few seconds
of this incident.
So, it, I think, may have left
some doubt in the jury's mind.
And, you know, there are some
Supreme Court cases, Graham vs.
Connor, that give the benefit
of the doubt in a lot of these
cases to a police officer.
They urge the jury to think
about it from the officer's
perspective in the moment, not
in perfect 20/20 hindsight.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tim, we
learned in this process that
Mr. Castile had a permit for
that weapon.
But what's the level of concern
or anger in your community?
I remember, right after this
incident, there were protests
on your streets for days and
weeks.
TIM NELSON: Not
just on our streets.
They closed an interstate
between the two cities in what
authorities later called a
riot.
There were police officers
injured in that incident.
The protesters occupied
the front of the governor's
mansion for weeks here.
And, you know, you remember,
this happened just after the
shooting in Louisiana and had
been -- it sort of added
to the tension there.
We haven't seen those kinds of
protests lately, but as soon as
I walked out of the courtroom
today, as soon as I walked out
of the courthouse, there were
people with hand-lettered signs
shouting, making their
voices, their unhappiness
about this verdict.
So it's clear there are some
people who are very angry
about this, and we may see some
more of that coming up soon.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Tim Nelson of Minnesota
Public Radio, thanks so much.